CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

============
Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome, encouraged and are greatly appreciated! Every little bit helps, and credit will always be
given.

The `Github forking workflow`_ is used for submitting proposals for change to this repo. The following sections will
give a brief overview of how this repo utilizes the workflow for managing community contributions.

Setup Development Environment
=============================

Refer the the `Developer Quick Start Guide`_ documentation for more details on setting up a development environment.

Setup Fork & Local Feature Branch
=================================

First step is to `fork this repo`_!

Once a fork has been created, follow these steps to make a local clone and create a feature branch:

1. Clone your fork locally::

    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/flask-ligand.git

2. Setup develop environment::

    $ cd flask-ligand/
    $ make develop-venv # OR 'make develop' if you're not using virtualenvwrapper

3. Create a branch for local development::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

Pull Request Guidelines
=======================

Run All the Tests
-----------------

Before creating a commit it is essential that the changes be tested first. Also, make sure to write appropriate tests
for the change you'll be proposing in the pull request!

Simply execute the following ``make`` target to run tests against all supported Python versions::

    $ make test-tox

Commit Message Formatting
-------------------------

This repo utilizes `python-semantic-release`_ with the `emoji commit parser`_ configuration enabled. The type of change
being proposed in the commit must be in brackets in the commit subject which is expressed as an emoji which represents
one of the following `semantic versioning`_ change concepts:

Major:

- \:boom:

Minor:

- \:sparkles:
- \:children_crossing:
- \:lipstick:
- \:iphone:
- \:egg:
- \:chart_with_upwards_trend:

Patch:

- \:ambulance:
- \:lock:
- \:bug:
- \:zap:
- \:goal_net:
- \:alien:
- \:wheelchair:
- \:speech_balloon:
- \:mag:
- \:apple:
- \:penguin:
- \:checkered_flag:
- \:robot:
- \:green_apple:

The body of the commit message should give a succinct description of what is being changed and why.

**Example:**

::

    [:ambulance:] Fix Broken Thing

    The thing feature was broken in the last release because of a typo.

Create the Pull Request on GitHub
---------------------------------

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests. (Not looking for 100% coverage, but a sufficient level of testing)
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated.
3. Check GitHub Actions to make sure that all tests pass for all supported Python versions before requesting a PR
   review.

.. _Github forking workflow: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow
.. _Developer Quick Start Guide: docs/developer_guide.rst
.. _fork this repo: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo
.. _python-semantic-release: https://python-semantic-release.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#
.. _emoji commit parser: https://python-semantic-release.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#commit-parser
.. _semantic versioning: https://semver.org/

Commit message:

[FIX:robot:] Add Note about Building RTD Correctly
Okay, I discovered that you have to create a new version of the library
regardless of documentation change otherwise the RTD site will not build.

Yuck!

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

============
Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome, encouraged and are greatly appreciated! Every little bit helps, and credit will always be
given.

The `Github forking workflow`_ is used for submitting proposals for change to this repo. The following sections will
give a brief overview of how this repo utilizes the workflow for managing community contributions.

Setup Development Environment
=============================

Refer the the `Developer Quick Start Guide`_ documentation for more details on setting up a development environment.

Setup Fork & Local Feature Branch
=================================

First step is to `fork this repo`_!

Once a fork has been created, follow these steps to make a local clone and create a feature branch:

1. Clone your fork locally::

    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/flask-ligand.git

2. Setup develop environment::

    $ cd flask-ligand/
    $ make develop-venv # OR 'make develop' if you're not using virtualenvwrapper

3. Create a branch for local development::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

Pull Request Guidelines
=======================

Run All the Tests
-----------------

Before creating a commit it is essential that the changes be tested first. Also, make sure to write appropriate tests
for the change you'll be proposing in the pull request!

Simply execute the following ``make`` target to run tests against all supported Python versions::

    $ make test-tox

Commit Message Formatting
-------------------------

This repo utilizes `python-semantic-release`_ with the `emoji commit parser`_ configuration enabled. The type of change
being proposed in the commit must be in brackets in the commit subject which is expressed as an emoji which represents
one of the following `semantic versioning`_ change concepts:

Major:

- \:boom:

Minor:

- \:sparkles:
- \:children_crossing:
- \:lipstick:
- \:iphone:
- \:egg:
- \:chart_with_upwards_trend:

Patch:

- \:ambulance:
- \:lock:
- \:bug:
- \:zap:
- \:goal_net:
- \:alien:
- \:wheelchair:
- \:speech_balloon:
- \:mag:
- \:apple:
- \:penguin:
- \:checkered_flag:
- \:robot:
- \:green_apple:

The body of the commit message should give a succinct description of what is being changed and why.

**Example:**

::

    [:ambulance:] Fix Broken Thing

    The thing feature was broken in the last release because of a typo.


**DOCUMENTATION UPDATES REQUIRE A SEMANTIC VERSION!!!**

Regardless of how minor a documentation change might be that in no way affects the code base, it still requires that
a semantic version be attached to the commit! Otherwise the "Read the Docs" build will fail and not publish the
documentation!

Create the Pull Request on GitHub
---------------------------------

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests. (Not looking for 100% coverage, but a sufficient level of testing)
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated.
3. Check GitHub Actions to make sure that all tests pass for all supported Python versions before requesting a PR
   review.

.. _Github forking workflow: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow
.. _Developer Quick Start Guide: docs/developer_guide.rst
.. _fork this repo: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo
.. _python-semantic-release: https://python-semantic-release.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#
.. _emoji commit parser: https://python-semantic-release.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#commit-parser
.. _semantic versioning: https://semver.org/
