README.rst, before:

============
flask-ligand
============

|build-status| |pypi-status| |codecov-status| |pre-commit-status|

A simple flask library for building microservices with RBAC JWT security, OpenAPI client and SQLAlchemy database
support.

Developer Quick Start Guide
---------------------------

Follow the instructions below to get a development environment up and running quickly!

Prerequisites
=============

- Python 3.10+
- virtualenvwrapper_

Getting Help with Make Tasks
============================

Execute the following command to get a full list of ``make`` targets::

    $ make help

Setup Python Development Environment
====================================

1. Create a Python virtual environment::

    $ mkvirtualenv -p py310 flask-ligand

2. Setup develop environment::

    $ make develop-venv

3. Setup git pre-commit hooks::

    $ make setup-pre-commit

4. Verify that environment is ready for development::

    $ make test-all

Configuration Settings
----------------------

The following environment variables are available to configure behavior of services that use this library:

.. list-table:: **Environment Variable Settings**
   :widths: 25 35 50

   * - **ENV**
     - **Default Value for 'local' Environment**
     - **Description**

   * - ``SERVICE_PUBLIC_URL``
     - ``http://localhost:5000``
     - The public URL for this service. (Used for generating OpenAPI clients)
   * - ``SERVICE_PRIVATE_URL``
     - ``http://localhost:5000``
     - The private URL for this service. (Used for generating OpenAPI clients)
   * - ``OIDC_ISSUER_URL``
     - *None* (must be provided)
     - The Keycloak IAM URL to use for authentication.
   * - ``OIDC_REALM``
     - *None* (must be provided)
     - The Keycloak IAM realm to use for authentication.
   * - ``SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI``
     - ``sqlite:///:memory:``
     - The URI for a PostgreSQL database to use for persistent storage.
   * - ``OPENAPI_GEN_SERVER_URL``
     - ``http://api.openapi-generator.tech``
     - The OpenAPI online generator server URL to use for creating clients.

Contributing
------------

See `CONTRIBUTING.rst`_ for more details on developing for the ``flask-ligand`` project.

Release Process
---------------

See `release_process.rst`_ for information on the release process for the ``flask-ligand`` project.

Python Black IDE Integration
----------------------------

This repo utilizes `Python Black`_ for automatic code formatting using the ``make format`` task. However, this is not
very convenient to use on a regular basis and instead it is recommended to integrate Python Black into your IDE
workflow. Checkout these `editor integration`_ guides for integrating `Python Black`_ with popular IDEs and text
editors.

.. _CONTRIBUTING.rst: CONTRIBUTING.rst
.. _release_process.rst: docs/release_process.rst
.. _virtualenvwrapper: https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _Python Black: https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. _editor integration: https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/integrations/editors.html

.. |build-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/cowofevil/flask-ligand/Build?logo=github
   :target: https://github.com/cowofevil/flask-ligand/actions/workflows/bump_and_publish_release.yml
   :alt: Build
.. |pypi-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flask-ligand?color=blue&logo=pypi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/flask-ligand/
   :alt: PyPI
.. |codecov-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/cowofevil/flask-ligand?color=teal&logo=codecov
   :target: https://app.codecov.io/gh/cowofevil/flask-ligand
   :alt: Codecov
.. |pre-commit-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white
   :target: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit
   :alt: pre-commit

Commit message:

[FIX] Enable SQLite Memory Database URI for Local Environment
When running a 'local' flask environment the default setting for the database
URI should be set to sqlite memory.

Also, I discovered that I didn't mention that this project has always had
support for '.env' files. Furthermore, I totally forgot about this and found
a handy library for viewing the pip dependency tree that I decided to include
in the dev dependencies.

Also also, I added PyCharm run configurations for a local Flask environment.

README.rst, after:

============
flask-ligand
============

|build-status| |pypi-status| |codecov-status| |pre-commit-status|

A simple flask library for building microservices with RBAC JWT security, OpenAPI client and SQLAlchemy database
support.

Developer Quick Start Guide
---------------------------

Follow the instructions below to get a development environment up and running quickly!

Prerequisites
=============

- Python 3.10+
- virtualenvwrapper_

Getting Help with Make Tasks
============================

Execute the following command to get a full list of ``make`` targets::

    $ make help

Setup Python Development Environment
====================================

1. Create a Python virtual environment::

    $ mkvirtualenv -p py310 flask-ligand

2. Setup develop environment::

    $ make develop-venv

3. Setup git pre-commit hooks::

    $ make setup-pre-commit

4. Verify that environment is ready for development::

    $ make test-all

Configuration Settings
----------------------

The following environment variables are available to configure behavior of services that use this library.

(**Note**: this project does support the use of '.env' files for loading environment variables)

.. list-table:: **Environment Variable Settings**
   :widths: 25 35 50

   * - **ENV**
     - **Default Value for 'local' Environment**
     - **Description**

   * - ``SERVICE_PUBLIC_URL``
     - ``http://localhost:5000``
     - The public URL for this service. (Used for generating OpenAPI clients)
   * - ``SERVICE_PRIVATE_URL``
     - ``http://localhost:5000``
     - The private URL for this service. (Used for generating OpenAPI clients)
   * - ``OIDC_ISSUER_URL``
     - *None* (must be provided)
     - The Keycloak IAM URL to use for authentication.
   * - ``OIDC_REALM``
     - *None* (must be provided)
     - The Keycloak IAM realm to use for authentication.
   * - ``SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI``
     - ``sqlite:///:memory:``
     - The URI for a PostgreSQL database to use for persistent storage.
   * - ``OPENAPI_GEN_SERVER_URL``
     - ``http://api.openapi-generator.tech``
     - The OpenAPI online generator server URL to use for creating clients.

Contributing
------------

See `CONTRIBUTING.rst`_ for more details on developing for the ``flask-ligand`` project.

Release Process
---------------

See `release_process.rst`_ for information on the release process for the ``flask-ligand`` project.

Python Black IDE Integration
----------------------------

This repo utilizes `Python Black`_ for automatic code formatting using the ``make format`` task. However, this is not
very convenient to use on a regular basis and instead it is recommended to integrate Python Black into your IDE
workflow. Checkout these `editor integration`_ guides for integrating `Python Black`_ with popular IDEs and text
editors.

.. _CONTRIBUTING.rst: CONTRIBUTING.rst
.. _release_process.rst: docs/release_process.rst
.. _virtualenvwrapper: https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _Python Black: https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. _editor integration: https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/integrations/editors.html

.. |build-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/cowofevil/flask-ligand/Build?logo=github
   :target: https://github.com/cowofevil/flask-ligand/actions/workflows/bump_and_publish_release.yml
   :alt: Build
.. |pypi-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flask-ligand?color=blue&logo=pypi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/flask-ligand/
   :alt: PyPI
.. |codecov-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/cowofevil/flask-ligand?color=teal&logo=codecov
   :target: https://app.codecov.io/gh/cowofevil/flask-ligand
   :alt: Codecov
.. |pre-commit-status| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white
   :target: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit
   :alt: pre-commit
